{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11920\viewh11240\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Viral latency is a major barrier to curing HIV infection with antiretroviral therapy, and consequently, for eliminating the disease globally. The establishment, maintenance, and potential clearance of latent infection are complex dynamic processes and can be best understood and described with the help of mathematical models. Here we review the use of viral dynamics models for HIV, with a focus on applications to the latent reservoir. Such models have been used to explain the multiphasic decay of viral load during antiretroviral therapy, the early seeding of the latent reservoir during acute infection and the limited inflow during treatment, the dynamics of viral blips, and the phenomenon of posttreatment control. In addition, mathematical models have been used to predict the efficacy of potential HIV cure strategies, such as latency-reversing agents, early treatment initiation, or gene therapies, and to provide guidance for designing trials of these novel interventions. \
Despite antiretroviral therapy (ART), a latent reservoir of replication-competent HIV persists in resting memory CD4\up8 + \up0 T~cells and precludes a cure. Lorenzo-Redondo \up8  \up0 analysed HIV sequences collected from three individuals during the first six months of ART, discovered specific patterns of sequence evolution, and concluded that viral replication persists during therapy. We believe that these evolutionary patterns are artefacts of rapidly decaying viral subpopulations present during the first months of therapy and are not characteristic of the long-lived reservoir. We therefore argue that does not provide evidence that ongoing replication is an additional barrier to a cure for treated individuals who consistently maintain low viral loads. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The efficacy of antiretroviral therapy is significantly compromised by medication non-adherence. Long-acting enteral systems that can ease the burden of daily adherence have not yet been developed. Here we describe a week-long oral dosage form composed of distinct drug-polymer matrices which achieved week-long systemic drug levels of the antiretrovirals dolutegravir, rilpivirine and cabotegravir in a pig. Simulations of viral dynamics and patient adherence patterns indicate that such systems would significantly reduce therapeutic failures and epidemiological modelling suggests that using such an intervention prophylactically could avert hundreds of thousands of new HIV cases. In sum, weekly administration of long-acting antiretrovirals via a novel oral dosage form is a promising intervention to help control the HIV epidemic worldwide. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 The development of a cure for HIV infection is a major public health objective. Despite the ability of antiretroviral therapy (ART) to significantly reduce disease-related morbidity and mortality in HIV-1 infection, viral reservoirs persist indefinitely in latently infected cells. HIV persists during ART primarily within circulating and tissue-resident, long-lived memory CD4+ T that harbor integrated HIV DNA; these cells are not cleared with ART and are a source of viral rebound when treatment is discontinued. A major HIV eradication strategy involves aborting the initial seeding of these long-lived reservoirs though the very early initiation of ART  For example, a high-profile case of a perinatally-infected infant in which ART was initiated at 31 hours of life led to significant reductions in viral reservoir seeding and a significant time off ART (>2 years) prior to eventual viral recrudescence. However, the impact on extremely early antiretroviral therapy on HIV persistence, viral tissue reservoir seeding, and the potential to prevent establishment of life-long infection in adults is unknown. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Antiretroviral therapy can halt HIV replication, but fails to target the long-lived latent viral reservoir. Several pharmacological compounds have been evaluated for their ability to reverse HIV latency, but none have demonstrably reduced the latent HIV-1 reservoir, or impacted viral rebound following the interruption of antiretroviral therapy. Here, we evaluate orally administered selective toll- like receptor 7 agonists GS-986 and GS-9620 for their ability to induce transient viremia in simian immunodeficiency virus-infected rhesus monkeys on suppressive antiretroviral therapy. In an initial dose- escalation study, and a subsequent dose-optimization study, we found that toll-like receptor 7 agonists activate multiple innate and adaptive immune cell populations in addition to the induction of SIV RNA. We also observed toll-like receptor 7 agonist\'96induced reductions in SIV DNA and in the levels of ex vivo inducible virus from treated animals. In the second study, after stopping antiretroviral therapy, two of nine treated animals have remained aviremic for more than two years, even after in vivo CD8+ lymphocyte depletion. Moreover, adoptive transfer of cells from aviremic animals could not induce de novo infection into na\'efve recipient macaques. These findings suggest that toll-like receptor agonists may facilitate reservoir reduction in a subset of individuals. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A priority for HIV cure research is measuring latent infection that can fuel viral recrudescence if patients cease antiretroviral therapy (ART). One important quantity that is difficult to mea- sure is the rate at which latently infected cells activate, giving rise to spreading infection. Pinkevych et al. recently estimated this rate by analyzing several clinical cohorts and concluded that one cell activates every 6 days . This rate is 24-fold lower than our previous estimate of 4 cells/day resulting in far more optimistic predictions for the prospects of reservoir reducing therapy. We question their estimation approach and suggest that a higher rate is likely for most infected individuals. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The development of immunologic interventions that can target the viral reservoir in HIV infected individuals is a major goal of HIV research. However, little evidence exists that the viral reservoir can be sufficiently targeted to improve virologic control following discontinuation of antiretroviral therapy. Here we show that therapeutic vaccination with Ad26/MVA (recombinant adenovirus serotype 26 (Ad26) prime, modified vaccinia Ankara (MVA) boost)\up8  \up0 and stimulation of TLR7 (Toll-like receptor 7) improves virologic control and delays viral rebound following discontinuation of antiretroviral therapy in SIV-infected rhesus monkeys that began antiretroviral therapy during acute infection. Therapeutic vaccination with Ad26/MVA resulted in a marked increase in the magnitude and breadth of SIV-specific cellular immune responses in virologically suppressed, SIV-infected monkeys. TLR7 agonist administration led to innate immune stimulation and cellular immune activation. The combination of Ad26/MVA vaccination and TLR7 stimulation resulted in decreased levels of viral DNA in lymph nodes and peripheral blood, and improved virologic control and delayed viral rebound following discontinuation of antiretroviral therapy. The breadth of cellular immune responses correlated inversely with set point viral loads and correlated directly with time to viral rebound. These data demonstrate the potential of therapeutic vaccination combined with innate immune stimulation as a strategy aimed at a functional cure for HIV infection. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Monitoring the efficacy of novel reservoir-reducing treatments for HIV is challenging. The limited ability to sample and quantify latent infection means that supervised antiretroviral therapy (ART) interruption studies are generally required. Here we introduce a set of mathematical and statistical modeling tools to aid in the design and interpretation of ART interruption trials. We show how the likely size of the remaining reservoir can be updated in real- time as patients continue off treatment, by combining the output of laboratory assays with insights from models of reservoir dynamics and rebound. We design an optimal schedule for viral load sampling during interruption, whereby the frequency of follow-up can be decreased as patients continue off ART without rebound. While this scheme can minimize costs when the chance of rebound between visits is low, we find that the reservoir will be almost completely reseeded before rebound is detected unless sampling occurs at least every two weeks and the most sensitive viral load assays are used. We use simulated data to predict the clinical trial size needed to estimate treatment effects in the face of highly variable patient outcomes and imperfect reservoir assays. Our findings suggest that large numbers of patients\'97between 40 and 150\'97will be necessary to reliably estimate the reservoir- reducing potential of a new therapy and to compare this across interventions. As an example, we apply these methods to the two \'93Boston patients\'94, recipients of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplants who experienced large reductions in latent infection and underwent ART-interruption. We argue that the timing of viral rebound was not particularly surprising given the information available before treatment cessation. Additionally, we show how other clinical data can be used to estimate the relative contribution that remaining HIV\up10  \up0 cells in the recipient versus newly infected cells from the donor made to the residual reservoir that eventually caused rebound. Together, these tools will aid HIV researchers in the evaluating new potentially-curative strategies that target the latent reservoir. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Limiting dilution assays are commonly used to measure the extent of infection, and in the context of HIV they represent an essential tool for studying latency and potential curative strategies. Yet standard assay designs may not discern whether an intervention reduces an already miniscule latent infection. This review addresses challenges arising in this setting and in the general use of dilution assays. We illustrate the major statistical method for estimating frequency of infectious units from assay results, and we offer an online tool for computing this estimate. We recommend a procedure for customizing assay design to achieve desired sensitivity and precision goals, subject to experimental constraints. We consider experiments in which no viral outgrowth is observed and explain how using alternatives to viral outgrowth may make measurement of HIV latency more efficient. Finally, we discuss how biological complications \'96 such as probabilistic growth of small infections \'96 alter interpretations of experimental results. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Reversal of HIV-1 latency by small molecules is a potential cure strategy. This approach will likely require effective drug combinations to achieve high levels of latency reversal. Using resting CD4\up8 + \up0 T cells (rCD4s) from infected individuals, we developed an experimental and theoretical framework to identify effective latency-reversing agent (LRA) combinations. Utilizing ex vivo assays for intracellular HIV-1 mRNA and virion production, we compared 2-drug combinations of leading candidate LRAs and identified multiple combinations that effectively reverse latency. We showed that protein kinase C agonists in combination with bromodomain inhibitor JQ1 or histone deacetylase inhibitors robustly induce HIV-1 transcription and virus production when directly compared with maximum reactivation by T cell activation. Using the Bliss independence model to quantitate combined drug effects, we demonstrated that these combinations synergize to induce HIV-1 transcription. This robust latency reversal occurred without release of proinflammatory cytokines by rCD4s. To extend the clinical utility of our findings, we applied a mathematical model that estimates in vivo changes in plasma HIV-1 RNA from ex vivo measurements of virus production. Our study reconciles diverse findings from previous studies, establishes a quantitative experimental approach to evaluate combinatorial LRA decacy, and presents a model to predict in vivo responses to LRAs. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Human populations are arranged in social networks that determine interactions and influence the spread of diseases, behaviors and ideas. We evaluate the spread of long-term emotional states across a social network. We introduce a novel form of the classical susceptible\'96infected\'96susceptible disease model which includes the possibility for \'91spontaneous\'92 (or \'91automatic\'92) infection, in addition to disease transmission (the SISa model). Using this framework and data from the Framingham Heart Study, we provide formal evidence that positive and negative emotional states behave like infectious diseases spreading across social networks over long periods of time. The probability of becoming content is increased by 0.02 per year for each content contact, and the probability of becoming discontent is increased by 0.04 per year per discontent contact. Our mathematical formalism allows us to derive various quantities from the data, such as the average lifetime of a contentment \'91infection\'92 (10 years) or discontentment \'91infection\'92 (5 years). Our results give insight into the transmissive nature of positive and negative emotional states. Determining to what extent particular emotions or behaviors are infectious is a promising direction for further research with important implications for social science, epidemiology and health policy. Our model provides a theoretical framework for studying the interpersonal spread of any state that may also arise spontaneously, such as emotions, behaviors, health states, ideas or diseases with reservoirs.\
\
Many behavioral phenomena have been found to spread interpersonally through social networks, in a manner similar to infectious diseases. An important difference between social contagion and traditional infectious diseases, however, is that behavioral phenomena can be acquired by non-social mechanisms as well as through social transmission. We introduce a novel theoretical framework for studying these phenomena (the SISa model) by adapting a classic disease model to include the possibility for \'91automatic\'92 (or \'91spontaneous\'92) non-social infection. We provide an example of the use of this framework by examining the spread of obesity in the Framingham Heart Study Network. The interaction assumptions of the model are validated using longitudinal network transmission data. We find that the current rate of becoming obese is 2 per year and increases by 0.5 percentage points for each obese social contact. The rate of recovering from obesity is 4 per year, and does not depend on the number of non-obese contacts. The model predicts a long-term obesity prevalence of approximately 42, and can be used to evaluate the effect of different interventions on steady-state obesity. Model predictions quantitatively reproduce the actual historical time course for the prevalence of obesity. We find that since the 1970s, the rate of recovery from obesity has remained relatively constant, while the rates of both spontaneous infection and transmission have steadily increased over time. This suggests that the obesity epidemic may be driven by increasing rates of becoming obese, both spontaneously and transmissively, rather than by decreasing rates of losing weight. A key feature of the SISa model is its ability to characterize the relative importance of social transmission by quantitatively comparing rates of spontaneous versus contagious infection. It provides a theoretical framework for studying the interpersonal spread of any state that may also arise spontaneously, such as emotions, behaviors, health states, ideas or diseases with reservoirs.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Magnetic resonance imaging of hyperpolarized nuclei provides high image contrast with little or no background signal. To date, in vivo applications of pre-hyperpolarized materials have been limited by relatively short nuclear spin relaxation times. Here, we investigate silicon nanoparticles as a new type of hyperpolarized magnetic resonance imaging agent. Nuclear spin relaxation times for a variety of silicon nanoparticles are found to be remarkably long, ranging from many minutes to hours at room temperature, allowing hyperpolarized nanoparticles to be transported, administered, and imaged on practical time scales. Additionally, we demonstrate that silicon nanoparticles can be surface functionalized using techniques common to other biologically targeted nanoparticle systems. These results suggest that silicon nanoparticles can be used as a targetable, hyperpolarized magnetic resonance imaging agent with a large range of potential applications.\
Despite the high inhibition of viral replication achieved by current anti-HIV drugs, many patients fail treatment, often with emergence of drug-resistant virus. Clinical observations show that the relationship between adherence and likelihood of resistance differs dramatically among drug classes. We developed a mathematical model that explains these observations and predicts treatment outcomes. Our model incorporates drug properties, fitness differences between susceptible and resistant strains, mutations and adherence. We show that antiviral activity falls quickly for drugs with sharp dose-response curves and short half-lives, such as boosted protease inhibitors, limiting the time during which resistance can be selected for. We find that poor adherence to such drugs causes treatment failure via growth of susceptible virus, explaining puzzling clinical observations. Furthermore, our model predicts that certain single-pill combination therapies can prevent resistance regardless of patient adherence. Our approach represents a first step for simulating clinical trials of untested anti-HIV regimens and may help in the selection of new drug regimens for investigation.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Infectious diseases remain a formidable challenge to human health, and understanding pathogen evolution is crucial to designing effective therapeutics and control strategies. Here, we review important evolutionary aspects of HIV infection, highlighting the concept of selection at multiple spatial and temporal scales. At the smallest scale, a single cell may be infected by multiple virions competing for intracellular resources. Recombination and phenotypic mixing introduce novel evolutionary dynamics. As the virus spreads between cells in an infected individual, it continually evolves to circumvent the immune system. We discuss evolutionary mechanisms of HIV pathogenesis and progression to AIDS. Viral spread throughout the human population can lead to changes in virulence and the transmission of immune-evading variation. HIV emerged as a human pathogen due to selection occurring between different species, adapting from related viruses of primates. HIV also evolves resistance to antiretroviral drugs within a single infected host, and we explore the possibility for the spread of these strains between hosts, leading to a drug-resistant epidemic. We investigate the role of latency, drug-protected compartments, and direct cell-to-cell transmission on viral evolution. The introduction of an HIV vaccine may select for viral variants that escape vaccine control, both within an individual and throughout the population. Due to the strong selective pressure exerted by HIV-induced morbidity and mortality in many parts of the world, the human population itself may be co-evolving in response to the HIV pandemic. Throughout the paper, we focus on trade-offs between costs and benefits that constrain viral evolution and accentuate how selection pressures differ at different levels of selection.\
\
We have quantitatively modeled heterocyst differentiation after fixed nitrogen step-down in the filamentous cyanobacterium Anabaena sp. PCC 7120 without lateral inhibition due to the patterning proteins PatS or HetN. We use cell growth and division together with fixed-nitrogen dynamics and allow heterocysts to differentiate upon the local exhaustion of available fixed nitrogen. Slow transport of fixed nitrogen along a shared periplasmic space allows for fast growing cells to differentiate ahead of their neighbors. Cell-to-cell variability in growth rate determines the initial heterocyst pattern. Early release of fixed nitrogen from committed heterocysts allows a significant fraction of vegetative cells to be retained at later times. We recover the experimental heterocyst spacing distributions and cluster size distributions of Khudyakov and Golden. Different functions of HetR, a master regulator of heterocyst differentiation in Anabaena sp PCC 7120, can be separated by mutation. \
\
Background/Objectives: The prevalence of iron deficiency and iron deficiency anemia is high in India and appear unchanging over decades. To understand the persistence of these disorders, it is critical to measure iron absorption from cereal-based Indian meals, its modulation by ID and the time-course of the response of hemoglobin to iron intake.\
Subjects/Methods: Fe absorption from rice-based meals was measured by the erythrocyte incorporation of the stable isotope label at 14 days in iron deficiency anemia (N=15) and iron replete iron replete women (N=15). Hemoglobin level was used as surrogate for iron status, and a response curve for iron absorption versus the hemoglobin level for a rice-based meal was constructed from measured data. This relationship was used as input for a mathematical model that examined the hemoglobin response to different iron intakes in normal and anemic women.\
Results: The mean fractional Fe absorption from a rice-based meal in iron replete and iron deficiency anemia women was 2.7% and 8.3%, respectively. The model predicted that iron intakes between 20 and 55\uc0\u8201 mg/day in low-bioavailability diets would result in stable, non-anemic levels of hemoglobin in women over a 1-year period.\
Conclusion: This mathematical model suggests that with a iron intake of 20\'9630\uc0\u8201 mg/day and a dietary bioavailability of 3\'965%, hemoglobin concentration would hover around 12\u8201 g/dl with a variability of 0.5\u8201 g/dl in pre-menopausal adult women.\
\
Massive research efforts are now underway to develop a cure for HIV infection, allowing patients to discontinue lifelong combination antiretroviral~therapy. New latency-reversing agents may be able to purge the persistent reservoir of latent virus in resting memory CD4+ T cells, but the degree of reservoir reduction needed for cure remains unknown. Here we use a stochastic model of infection dynamics to estimate the efficacy of latency-reversing agents needed to prevent viral rebound after antiretroviral~therapy interruption. We incorporate clinical data to estimate population-level parameter distributions and outcomes. Our findings suggest that approximately 2,000-fold reductions are required to permit a majority of patients to interrupt antiretroviral~therapy for one year without rebound and that rebound may occur suddenly after multiple years. Greater than 10,000-fold reductions may be required to prevent rebound altogether. Our results predict large variation in rebound times following latency-reversing therapy, which will complicate clinical management. This model provides benchmarks for moving latency-reversing agents from the lab to the clinic and can aid in the design and interpretation of clinical trials. These results also apply to other interventions to reduce the latent reservoir and explain the observed return of viremia after months of apparent cure in recent bone marrow transplant recipients.\
\
Modern-day management of infectious diseases is critically linked to the use of mathematical models to understand and predict dynamics at many levels, from the mechanisms of pathogenesis to the patterns of population-wide transmission and evolution. This thesis describes the development and application of mathematical techniques for HIV infection and dynamics on social networks. Treatment of HIV infection has improved dramatically in the past few decades but is still limited by the development of drug resistance and the inability of current therapies to completely eradicate the virus from an individual. We begin with a synthesis of the important evolutionary principles governing the HIV epidemic, emphasizing the role of modeling. We then describe a modeling framework to study the emergence of drug-resistant HIV within a patient. Our model integrates laboratory data and patient behavior, with the goal of predicting outcomes of clinical trials. Current results demonstrate how pharmacologic properties of antiretroviral drugs affect selection for drug resistance, and can explain drug-class-specific resistance risks. Thirdly, we describe models for a new class of drugs that aim to eliminate cells with latent viral infection. We provide estimates for the required efficacy of these drugs and describe the potential challenges of future clinical trials. Finally, models and mechanisms for understanding viral dynamics are increasingly finding applications outside traditional virology. They can be used to study the dynamics of behaviors, to help predict and intervene in their spread. We describe techniques for applying infectious disease models to social contagion, drawing on techniques for network epidemiology. We use this framework to interpret data on the interpersonal spread of health-related behaviors.\
\
Infections with rapidly evolving pathogens are often treated using combinations of drugs with different mechanisms of action. One of the major goals of combination therapy is to reduce the risk of drug resistance emerging during a patient's treatment. While this strategy generally has significant benefits over monotherapy, multi-drug resistance remains an important clinical and public health problem. For many antimicrobial treatment regimes, individual drugs have imperfect penetration throughout the body, so there may be regions where only one drug reaches an effective concentration. Here we propose that mismatched drug coverage can greatly speed up the evolution of multi-drug resistance by allowing mutations to accumulate in a step-wise fashion. We develop a mathematical model of within-host pathogen evolution under spatially heterogeneous drug coverage and demonstrate that as predicted, even very small single-drug compartments lead to dramatically higher resistance risk. We find that it is often better to use drug combinations with matched penetration profiles, although there may be a trade-off between temporarily slowing pathogen growth systemically, and preventing eventual treatment failure due to resistance. Our results show that counter-intuitively, drugs with the most extensive distribution are likely to be the most vulnerable to resistance. We conclude that optimal combination treatments should be designed to prevent this spatial effective monotherapy. These results are widely applicable to diverse microbial infections including viruses, bacteria and parasites. \
\
In infectious disease epidemiology the basic~reproductive~ratio, R_0, is defined as the average number of new infections caused by a single infected individual during its first infectious period. Many models describing competition for hosts between non-interacting pathogen strains in an infinite population lead to the conclusion that selection favors invasion of new strains if and only if they have higher basic~reproductive~ratio values than the resident. Here we demonstrate that this picture fails in finite populations. Using a simple stochastic SIS model, we show that in general there is no analogous optimization principle. We find that successive invasions may in some cases lead to strains that infect a smaller fraction of the host population, and that mutually invasible pathogen strains exist. In the limit of weak selection we demonstrate that an optimization principle does exist, although it differs from basic~reproductive~ratio maximization. For strains with very large basic~reproductive~ratio, we derive an expression for this local fitness function and use it to establish a lower bound for the error caused by neglecting stochastic effects. Furthermore, we apply this weak selection limit to investigate the selection dynamics in the presence of a trade-off between the virulence and the transmission rate of a pathogen\
\
Our ability to understand and control the spread of infectious diseases has historically relied on insights gained through mathematical modeling. One of the most important recent advancements in theoretical epidemiology has been the development of methods that account for realistic host population structure. The central finding is that heterogeneity in host contact networks strongly influences the epidemiology of an infectious disease. The presence of a few individuals with a disproportionately large number of contacts has been shown to significantly increase disease spread, and these ``superspreaders'' have been shown to be important drivers in many real epidemics. Disease control is also complicated by the constant and rapid evolution of pathogens in response to changing environments and medical interventions. It remains unclear, however, how population structure influences these adaptive processes. Here we examine the evolution of infectious disease in empirical and theoretical contact networks. We show that the heterogeneity in contact structure, which facilitates the spread of a single disease, surprisingly renders a resident strain more resilient to invasion by new variants. Our results suggest that generally all population structure suppresses evolution and slows disease adaptation. These findings are important to the natural history of disease evolution and the spread of drug resistant strains. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The latent viral reservoir represents a critical challenge facing HIV eradication strategies.  However, it remains unclear when and where the viral reservoir is established during acute infection and the extent to which it is susceptible to early antiretroviral~therapy.  Here we show that the viral reservoir is established very early following mucosal SIV infection of rhesus monkeys and prior to plasma viremia.  We initiated suppressive antiretroviral~therapy in groups of monkeys on days 3, 7, 10, and 14 following intrarectal SIVmac251 infection.  Treatment on day 3 blocked the emergence of plasma viremia and proviral DNA in peripheral blood and also substantially reduced levels of proviral DNA in lymph nodes and gastrointestinal mucosa as compared with animals treated at later timepoints.  In addition, treatment on day 3 abrogated the induction of SIV-specific humoral and cellular immune responses.  Nevertheless, following discontinuation of antiretroviral~therapy after 24 weeks of fully suppressive therapy, virus rebounded in all animals, although animals treated on day 3 exhibited a delayed viral rebound as compared with animals treated on days 7, 10 and 14.  The time to viral rebound correlated with total viremia during acute infection and proviral DNA at the time of antiretroviral~therapy discontinuation.  These data demonstrate that the viral reservoir is established very early following intrarectal SIV infection of rhesus monkeys, during the \'93eclipse\'94 phase, and prior to detectable plasma viremia.  This strikingly early establishment of the refractory viral reservoir raises important new challenges for HIV eradication strategies.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Viral infections are one of the major causes of death worldwide, with HIV infection alone resulting in over 1.2 million casualties per year. Antiviral drugs are now being administered for a variety of viral infections, including HIV, hepatitis B and C, and influenza. These therapies target a specific phase of the virus\'92s life cycle, yet their ultimate success depends on a variety of factors, such as adherence to a prescribed regimen and the emergence of viral drug resistance. The epidemiology and evolution of drug resistance have been extensively characterized, and it is generally assumed that drug resistance arises from mutations that alter the virus\'92s susceptibility to the direct action of the drug. In this paper, we consider the possibility that a virus population can evolve towards synchronizing its life cycle with the pattern of drug therapy. The periodicity of the drug treatment could then allow for a virus strain whose life cycle length is a multiple of the dosing interval to replicate only when the concentration of the drug is lowest. This process, referred to as \'93cryptic resistance\'94, could allow the virus population to maximize its overall fitness without having to alter drug binding or complete its lifecycle in the drug\'92s presence. We use mathematical models and stochastic simulations to show that life cycle synchronization can indeed be a mechanism of cryptic viral drug resistance. We show this effect is more likely to occur when the variability in both viral life cycle and drug dose timing are low. More generally, we find that in the presence of periodic drug levels, time-averaged calculations of viral fitness do not accurately predict drug levels needed to eradicate infection, even if there is no synchronization. We derive an analytical expression for viral fitness that is sufficient to explain the drug-pattern-dependent survival of strains with any life cycle length. We discuss the implications of these findings for clinically-relevant antiviral strategies. \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Importance: Allogeneic hematopoietic stem~cell transplantation with susceptible donor cells can lead to undetectable  HIV reservoirs in patients on combination antiretroviral~therapy, but the extent of reduction in the pool of  latently-infected cells required to achieve sustained HIV remission is unknown.\
Objective: To characterize HIV reservoirs in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and other tissues, and to perform analytical antiretroviral treatment interruption to determine the potential for hematopoietic stem~cell transplantation to lead to antiretroviral~therapy-free viral remission.\
Design: Viral reservoirs and HIV specific immunity from blood, gut tissue and CSF from individuals who underwent allogeneic hematopoietic stem~cell transplantation were characterized prior to and following antiretroviral~therapy discontinuation. The post-analytical treatment interruption and post-viral rebound clinical course was monitored with intensive HIV DNA and plasma RNA testing.\
\pard\tx0\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Setting: Tertiary care cancer and medical specialty referral center. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Participants: Two HIV-infected males who underwent allogeneic hematopoietic stem~cell transplantation for hematologic malignancies.\
\pard\tx0\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Intervention: Analytical antiretroviral treatment interruptions 2.8 to 4.6 years after transplant.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Outcomes:  The presence or absence of HIV in various tissues after allogeneic hematopoietic stem~cell transplantation and the length of antiretroviral~therapy-free viral remission after analytical treatment interruption. \
Results:  No HIV was detected from peripheral blood or rectal mucosa prior to analytical treatment interruption, and had no detectable plasma RNA or cell-associated HIV DNA was detected for up to 3 to 8 months after antiretroviral~therapy cessation.  Rebound viremia or the development of clinical symptoms occurred within one to two weeks of the most recent negative plasma HIV RNA level; one patient developed new NNRTI resistance after re-initiation of combination antiretroviral~therapy. Prompt re-initiation of active antiretroviral~therapy led to viral decay and resolution of symptoms in both patients.\
Conclusions and Relevance: Allogeneic hematopoietic stem~cell transplantation may lead to loss of detectable HIV from blood and gut tissue and variable periods of antiretroviral~therapy-free HIV remission, but viral rebound can occur despite up to a 3-4 log10 reduction in reservoir size. Long-lived tissue reservoirs following transplant may have contributed to viral persistence. Until more sensitive assays for detecting HIV persistence are developed, analytical treatment interruption remains the most reliable measure of viral persistence following therapeutic intervention.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
}